# smart-stick-using-machine-learning
ABSTRACT for the project :- 
Today technology is growing to a bigger extent, but there's no price effective device for visually impaired folks. For a visually impaired person it becomes not possible to try to to his/her day to day activities, so sensible Blind stick will facilitate visually impaired folks in moving and permitting them to perform their work simply. The sensible stick can have sensors embedded with it, thereby it senses the objects/intruder, once associatey objects or obstacles are available in vary of an supersonicdevice then the person is alerted with a fast reaction time employing a vibrator. The general system conjointly encompasses a GPS module, so the person with incapacity will recognize this location with the assistance of a electro-acoustic transducerand a speaker. this technique conjointly has a feature wherever within which the person with incapacity will contact to a particular person whose range is keep in an exceedingly microcontroller just in case of any emergency. this techniqueconjointly encompasses a water device at very cheap of the stick and Infrared device for effective obstacle detection. coming up with a price effective and economical blind stick is that the main aim of the project.
main moto for our project :
To make the application for the blind people and it is totally about the machine learning and the image processing.With our project the visually impaired person walk free and deduct the obstacles without the help of and another person.
CONCLUSION for the project:
It is necessary that visually impaired folks get access to AN economical and comfortable object so as to measure their way of life well. in an exceedingly developing country like India, there's a desire for a value effective resolution so most of the folks will have an effective product in hand. thus exploitation such good technology we tend to aim to assist visually impaired folks for his or her profit. The project analyzed the present electronic aids for blind folks and supported the constraints in existing aids, this project proposes AN enhanced helping electronic aid exploitation latest technology like supersonic waves, GPS, GSM .Hence our project aims to form lives higher for the visually impaired human kind Future Enhancements 
